---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "lightstep_alert Resource - terraform-provider-lightstep"
subcategory: ""
description: |-

---

# lightstep_alert (Resource)

Provides a [Lightstep alert](https://api-docs.lightstep.com/reference/listalertsid). Use this resource to create and manage Lightstep alerts.

Visit [Lightstep's documentation](https://docs.lightstep.com/docs/about-alerts) for conceptual information about alerts and alert templates.

## Example Usage

```hcl
resource "lightstep_alert" "beemo-requests" {
  project_name = var.project
  name         = "Frontend latency"

  expression {
    is_multi   = true
    is_no_data = true
    operand    = "above"
    thresholds {
      warning  = 5.0
      critical = 10.0
    }
  }

  query {
    query_name                          = "a"
    hidden                              = false
    query_string                        = <<EOT
spans latency
| delta 1h
| filter service == "frontend"
| group_by [], sum
| point percentile(value, 50)
EOT
  }

  alerting_rule {
      id = lightstep_pagerduty_destination.my_destination.id
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The title of the alert.
- `project_name` (String) The name of the [project](https://docs.lightstep.com/docs/glossary#project) in which to create this alert.

### Optional

- `alerting_rule` (Block Set) Optional configuration to enable alert notifications (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--alerting_rule)).
- `composite_alert` (Block List, Max: 1) Defines the configuration for a [composite alert](https://docs.lightstep.com/docs/about-alerts#customize-alerts-with-alert-templates). Mutually exclusive with { query, expression } which define the configuration for a single alert. (See [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--composite_alert).)
- `custom_data` (String) Optional free-form string to include in alert notifications (max length 4096 bytes).
- `description` (String) Optional extended description for the alert (supports Markdown).
- `expression` (Block List, Max: 1) Describes the conditions that trigger a single alert. For a composite alert, use the composite_alert section instead. (See [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--expression).)
- `label` (Block Set) Optional [labels](https://docs.lightstep.com/docs/use-labels) to attach to this alert. Labels can be key/value pairs or standalone values. (See [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--label).)
- `query` (Block List) Defines the query for a single alert. For a composite alert, use the composite_alert section instead. (See [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--query).)

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `type` (String)

<a id="nestedblock--alerting_rule"></a>
### Nested Schema for `alerting_rule`

Required:

- `id` (String) ID of the corresponding destination resource.

Optional:

- `exclude_filters` (List of Map of String)
- `filters` (List of Map of String)
- `include_filters` (List of Map of String) For alert queries that produce multiple group_by values, if at least one entry is specified for this field, the destination will only receive notification for group_by results that include the set of attributes specified here.
- `update_interval` (String) An optional duration that represents the frequency at which to re-send an alert notification if an alert remains in a triggered state. By default, notifications will only be sent when the alert status changes. Values should be expressed as a duration (example: "2d").


<a id="nestedblock--composite_alert"></a>
### Nested Schema for `composite_alert`

Required:

- `alert` (Block Set, Min: 1, Max: 10) Defines one of the sub alerts within a composite alert. (See [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--composite_alert--alert)).

<a id="nestedblock--composite_alert--alert"></a>
### Nested Schema for `composite_alert.alert`

Required:

- `expression` (Block List, Min: 1, Max: 1) (See [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--composite_alert--alert--expression).)
- `name` (String) The identifier for this sub alert. Must be a single uppercase letter (examples: "A", "B", "C").
- `query` (Block List, Min: 1, Max: 1) (See [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--composite_alert--alert--query).)

Optional:

- `title` (String) Optional free-form title for the sub alert.

<a id="nestedblock--composite_alert--alert--expression"></a>
### Nested Schema for `composite_alert.alert.expression`

Optional:

- `is_no_data` (Boolean) If true, a notification is sent when the alert query returns no data. If false, notifications aren't sent in this scenario.
- `operand` (String) Required when at least one threshold (Critical, Warning) is defined. Indicates whether the alert triggers when the value is above the threshold or below the threshold.
- `thresholds` (Block List, Max: 1) Optional values defining the thresholds at which this alert transitions into Critical or Warning states. If a particular threshold is not specified, the alert never transitions into that state. (See [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--composite_alert--alert--expression--thresholds).)

<a id="nestedblock--composite_alert--alert--expression--thresholds"></a>
### Nested Schema for `composite_alert.alert.expression.thresholds`

Optional:

- `critical` (String) Defines the threshold for the alert to transition to a Critical (more severe) status.
- `warning` (String) Defines the threshold for the alert to transition to a Warning (less severe) status.



<a id="nestedblock--composite_alert--alert--query"></a>
### Nested Schema for `composite_alert.alert.query`

Required:

- `hidden` (Boolean)
- `query_name` (String)
- `query_string` (String)

Optional:

- `display` (String)
- `display_type_options` (Block Set, Max: 1) Applicable options vary depending on the display type. Please see the Lightstep documentation for a full description. (See [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--composite_alert--alert--query--display_type_options).)
- `hidden_queries` (Map of String) An optional map of sub alert names in the query_string to a boolean string to hide/show that query. If specified, the map must have an entry for all named sub alerts in the query_string. A value of "true" indicates the query should be hidden. Example: `hidden_queries = {  "a" = "true",  "b" = "false" }`.

<a id="nestedblock--composite_alert--alert--query--display_type_options"></a>
### Nested Schema for `composite_alert.alert.query.display_type_options`

Optional:

- `sort_by` (String)
- `sort_direction` (String)





<a id="nestedblock--expression"></a>
### Nested Schema for `expression`

Optional:

- `is_multi` (Boolean) When false, send a single notification whenever any number of group_by values exceeds the alert threshold. When true, send individual notifications for each distinct group_by value that exceeds the threshold.
- `is_no_data` (Boolean) If true, a notification is sent when the alert query returns no data. If false, notifications aren't sent in this scenario.
- `operand` (String) Required when at least one threshold (Critical, Warning) is defined. Indicates whether the alert triggers when the value is above the threshold or below the threshold.
- `thresholds` (Block List, Max: 1) Optional values defining the thresholds at which this alert should transition into Critical or Warning states. If a particular threshold is not specified, the alert will never transition into that state. (See [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--expression--thresholds).)

<a id="nestedblock--expression--thresholds"></a>
### Nested Schema for `expression.thresholds`

Optional:

- `critical` (String) Defines the threshold for the alert to transition to a Critical (more severe) status.
- `warning` (String) Defines the threshold for the alert to transition to a Warning (less severe) status.



<a id="nestedblock--label"></a>
### Nested Schema for `label`

Required:

- `value` (String)

Optional:

- `key` (String)


<a id="nestedblock--query"></a>
### Nested Schema for `query`

Required:

- `hidden` (Boolean)
- `query_name` (String)
- `query_string` (String)

Optional:

- `display` (String)
- `display_type_options` (Block Set, Max: 1) Applicable options vary depending on the display type. Please see the Lightstep documentation for a full description. (See [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--query--display_type_options).)
- `hidden_queries` (Map of String) An optional map of sub alert names in the query_string to a boolean string to hide/show that query. If specified, the map must have an entry for all named sub alerts in the query_string. A value of "true" indicates the query should be hidden. Example: `hidden_queries = {  "a" = "true",  "b" = "false" }`.

<a id="nestedblock--query--display_type_options"></a>
### Nested Schema for `query.display_type_options`

Optional:

- `sort_by` (String)
- `sort_direction` (String)
