---
page_title: "lightstep_metric_condition Resource - terraform-provider-lightstep"
subcategory: ""
description: |-

---

# NOTE: This resource will be deprecated in v2+. Use `lightstep_alert` instead.

# lightstep_metric_condition (Resource)

Provides a Lightstep Metric Condition. Use this resource to create and manage Lightstep Metric Conditions that can contain either
metric queries or span queries.

## Example Usage (metric query)

```hcl
resource "lightstep_metric_condition" "beemo-requests" {
  project_name = var.project
  name         = "Beemo Low Requests"

  label {
    key = "team"
    value = "ontology"
  }

  label {
    value = "custom-label"
  }

  expression {
    is_multi   = true
    is_no_data = true
    operand    = "below"
    thresholds {
      warning  = 10.0
      critical = 5.0
    }
  }

  metric_query {
    metric                              = "requests"
    query_name                          = "a"
    timeseries_operator                 = "delta"
    timeseries_operator_input_window_ms = 30000
    hidden                              = false
    display                             = "line"

    include_filters = [
      {
        key   = "kube_instance"
        value = "3"
      }
    ]

    group_by {
      aggregation_method = "max"
      keys               = ["key1", "key2"]
    }
  }
```

## Example Usage (span query)

```hcl
resource "lightstep_metric_condition" "beemo-requests" {
  project_name = var.project
  name         = "Frontend latency"

  expression {
    is_multi   = true
    is_no_data = true
    operand    = "above"
    thresholds {
      warning  = 5.0
      critical = 10.0
    }
  }

  metric_query {
    query_name                          = "a"
    hidden                              = false
    display                             = "line"

    spans {
      query                    = "service IN (\"frontend\")"
      operator                 = "latency"
      operator_input_window_ms = 3600000
      latency_percentiles      = [50]
    }
  }
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `expression` (Block List, Min: 1, Max: 1) Describes the conditions that trigger the alert. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--expression))
- `metric_query` (Block List, Min: 1) Defines the alert query (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--metric_query))
- `name` (String) The title of the alert.
- `project_name` (String) The name of the [project](https://docs.lightstep.com/docs/glossary#project) in which to create this alert.

### Optional

- `alerting_rule` (Block Set) Optional configuration to receive alert notifications. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--alerting_rule))
- `custom_data` (String) Optional free-form string to include in alert notifications (max length 4096 bytes).
- `description` (String) Optional extended description for the alert (supports Markdown).
- `label` (Block Set) Optional labels to attach to this alert. Labels can be key/value pairs or standalone values. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--label))

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `type` (String)

<a id="nestedblock--expression"></a>
### Nested Schema for `expression`

Optional:

- `is_multi` (Boolean) When false, send a single notification whenever any number of group_by values exceeds the alert threshold. When true, send individual notifications for each distinct group_by value that exceeds the threshold.
- `is_no_data` (Boolean) If true, a notification is sent when the alert query returns no data. If false, notifications aren't sent in this scenario.
- `operand` (String) Required when at least one threshold (Critical, Warning) is defined. Indicates whether the alert triggers when the value is above the threshold or below the threshold.
- `thresholds` (Block List, Max: 1) Optional values defining the thresholds at which this alert transitions into Critical or Warning states. If a particular threshold is not specified, the alert never transitions into that state. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--expression--thresholds))

<a id="nestedblock--expression--thresholds"></a>
### Nested Schema for `expression.thresholds`

Optional:

- `critical` (String) Defines the threshold for the alert to transition to a Critical (more severe) status.
- `warning` (String) Defines the threshold for the alert to transition to a Warning (less severe) status.



<a id="nestedblock--metric_query"></a>
### Nested Schema for `metric_query`

Required:

- `hidden` (Boolean)
- `query_name` (String)

Optional:

- `display` (String)
- `exclude_filters` (List of Map of String) Not-equals filters (operand: neq)
- `filters` (List of Map of String) Non-equality filters (operand: contains, regexp)
- `final_window_operation` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--metric_query--final_window_operation))
- `group_by` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--metric_query--group_by))
- `include_filters` (List of Map of String) Equality filters (operand: eq)
- `metric` (String)
- `spans` (Block List, Max: 1, Deprecated) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--metric_query--spans))
- `timeseries_operator` (String)
- `timeseries_operator_input_window_ms` (Number) Unit specified in milliseconds, but must be at least 30,000 and a round number of seconds (i.e. evenly divisible by 1,000).
- `tql` (String, Deprecated) Deprecated, use the query_string field in lightstep_dashboard or lightstep_alert instead

<a id="nestedblock--metric_query--final_window_operation"></a>
### Nested Schema for `metric_query.final_window_operation`

Optional:

- `input_window_ms` (Number) Unit specified in milliseconds, but must be at least 30,000 and a round number of seconds (i.e. evenly divisible by 1,000).
- `operator` (String)


<a id="nestedblock--metric_query--group_by"></a>
### Nested Schema for `metric_query.group_by`

Optional:

- `aggregation_method` (String)
- `keys` (List of String)


<a id="nestedblock--metric_query--spans"></a>
### Nested Schema for `metric_query.spans`

Required:

- `operator` (String)
- `query` (String)

Optional:

- `group_by_keys` (List of String)
- `latency_percentiles` (List of Number)
- `operator_input_window_ms` (Number)



<a id="nestedblock--alerting_rule"></a>
### Nested Schema for `alerting_rule`

Required:

- `id` (String) The id of the destination to receive notifications for this alert.

Optional:

- `include_filters` (List of Map of String) For alert queries that produce multiple group_by results, if at least one include_filters entry is specified, this destination only receives notifications for query results matching all of the specified group_by attributes.  
Required fields:
  * "key" = The name of the attribute to match. Must match one of the attribute names in the query group_by expression.
  * "value" = The value of the attribute to route to this destination.
- `update_interval` (String) An optional duration that represents the frequency at which to re-send an alert notification if an alert remains in a triggered state. 
By default, notifications will only be sent when the alert status changes.  
Values should be expressed as a duration (example: "2d").


<a id="nestedblock--label"></a>
### Nested Schema for `label`

Required:

- `value` (String)

Optional:

- `key` (String)
